good product engineer, bad product engineer + how to "product" (#8996)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/handbook/engineering/product-engineering.md

---
title: How to do product, as an engineer
sidebar: Handbook
showTitle: true
---

## Good product engineers, bad product engineers

Good product engineers:
* Ship quickly so they have a fast feedback loop
* Understand the company strategy, and prioritize based on this _and_ what they believe users want
* Can easily propose ideas for what to build
* Make sure the things they've built are being used
* Follow up after they've built something to improve it if needed
* Are good at descoping things and getting products or features into people's hands quickly
* Have users that they're friendly with
* Manage to build things without lots of internal meetings

Bad product engineers
* Consider research something that takes two weeks rather than two hours

> * Can't explain our compay strategy

Author: ```suggestion
* Can't explain our company strategy
```

  * (ii) totally innovative things like new UX driven by our take on AI, or a new way to access data (like Hog or HogQL), or an integrated experience that no one else can offer because they don't have all the tools in one. In these cases, it is _more important_ to consider how your products are being used as you are more likely to build something that isn't useful (but at this stage, it's fine and encouraged to innovate)

There are plenty of other techniques, that you can do in parallel to get a signal on a new idea:

* **Use the public roadmap.** If you have a rough idea, create a GitHub issue and create an item on posthog.com/roadmap. This will gauge demand.

* **Ask internally for help.** There are lots of people that can help you. The CS team talk to users all the time, the support team have a strong sense of pain points, other product engineers have all talked to users, James and Tim have a broader view of how PostHog is doing, the marketing team can help you get usage or validate demand.

> * **Interviews.** Our Product Managers regularly run interviews, ask to be included and give a heads up what you're trying to learn about, or just message users directly! You can even embed your calendar in our surveys product to get ou will need lots of existing potentially relevant customers for this to make sense.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Interviews.** Our Product Managers regularly run interviews, ask to be included and give a heads up what you're trying to learn about, or just message users directly! You can even embed your calendar in our surveys product to book your own user interviews. You will need lots of existing potentially relevant customers for this to make sense, since response rates are typically low.
```
